This package is to demonstrate the working of the Katib hyper parameter tuning on the data set of a table tennis stroke recognition examples using transfer learning.  The parameters we chose to illustrate is the optimization parameters in the compile stage.  They are sdg, adam , ftrl.
The following is the loading process of the package:
1.The model to be packaged is first installed as an image with docker, and then the image is packaged as a docker container.  The packaged container can be run on docker, and the built model and training results can be seen from running the docker.
2. pull the packaged container to dockerhub.  It will give you a tag for the project, and then you can use the container of this project by selecting the tag, which is very convenient.
3. My project is to use Katib to package into components, and run hyperparameter model training on the pipeline to analyze which function is most effective for model training. Create an experiment, and set two trials, the trial part is to set the condition for the completion of his training, set it to be more than 60 to stop the function’s training for this layer,
4. Use functions (sdg, adam, ftrl) to analyze, and finally list the matrices, each matrix contains the best result of training the three functions, and finally calculate which function is used the most times (the highest accuracy), Then use experiment result visualization to see the linear results. At present, the best optimized function of this model is adam, with an accuracy rate of >90% as shown below.  After that, it will be applied to my model to use adam to effectively improve the accuracy.
 
